---
layout: post
---
Happy Boxing Day!  Yup, I am from 🇨🇦 so today is actually a holiday.  Since I'm taking this 
whole week off, I cued up some content in advance for you.  Hope you had a Merry Christmas, and 
that everyone has a Happy New Year 🎉.

### Featured in the School

I'm experimenting a bit with a new setup that helps you tell me about your interests.  If you 
go to the [WNDX School](https://wndx.school?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4) 
now, there will be a set of little question pop-ups that ask a bit about you and your RubyMotion 
interests.  Follow the [link](https://wndx.school/?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4) 
and let me know how I can serve this community better!

### Slack Highlights

In another discussion kicked off by Matias Forbord, we talked about this: AWS Lambda announces 
Ruby support. It's now possible to run stuff like, say, push notifications, on AWS serverless 
using Ruby.  This is interesting for those who want to have a single language stack.

To repeat one last time... we cancelled the [December RubyMotion Meetup](http://meetup.rubymotion.com/?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4) (these are held online).  
Current schedule seems to be causing some participation difficulties.  Come on in to the [#meetup](https://motioneers.slack.com/archives/C1DFJ9ES1/p1544586762003400?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4) 
channel and chime in about any days / times that are better or worse for yourself if you'd like 
to participate regularly!  These are great ways to meet your fellow community members, and hear 
about the projects they are working on.

And if you haven't signed up for Slack yet, you can get access by going to [motioneers.herokuapp.com](http://motioneers.herokuapp.com/?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4).

### Gem of the Week

Here's a repo (not officially a gem) that adds [auxiliary commands](https://github.com/amirrajan/rubymotion-command?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4) to RubyMotion. If you have any
cool extra commands you use that you'd like to contribute, so that everyone can benefit, please 
fork, add your command, and open up a pull request! I don't know about you, but I'm **really** 
looking forward to motion doctor!  

I'm featuring RubyMotion gems here each week.  Sometimes because they are awesome, and sometimes 
because they need some love. Remember, if you have a gem you'd like featured, just reply to this 
email, or you can PM me in Slack! 

### Community Forum

From a while back, we have this frequently recurring problem of [requested deployment target SDK 
is not available](http://community.rubymotion.com/t/error-the-requested-deployment-target-sdk-is-not-available-or-supported-by-rubymotion-at-this-time/132/14?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4). Pretty much every major release, in September, this comes up.  Once a new SDK 
has been released, and RubyMotion has been updated to support it, the Starter edition is *fixed* 
on that new SDK. So you need to upgrade yourself to all the new stuff (to use Starter) or 
purchase an Indie license (so you can target any supported SDK). It's really hard to test this 
stuff (every permutation of operating system, Xcode version, iOS version, etc) so there are 
frequently issues.  If you experience this problem, make sure you come and ask for help in 
either the forum or Slack, and someone will help you troubleshoot. 

And here's your reminder to introduce yourself on the [Hello World](http://community.rubymotion.com/t/hello-world-start-here/13?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4) post on the community forum!

### App Highlight of the Week

Got a nice one this week, thanks to Dave Trollope.  [Whose Turn...?](http://fsml-technologies.com/whoseturn/?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4) helps you figure out whose 
turn it is to... pay for lunch, or any meal, or even get your kids to figure out whose turn for 
that annoying chore! Includes a way to sync between phones. Neat app, Dave!

Psst!!! If you have an app (even if it's not in the App Store) send me the details, and I'll add 
it to the list to be featured!

### TWIL (This Week I Learned) Links 

Hey, check out [Amir's interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c52Om1bhoUI&feature=share&utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4) 
on the Ruby Rogues [podcast](https://itunes.apple.com/ca/podcast/the-ruby-rogues/id1237406856?mt=2&utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=4), talking about "RubyMotion and the Aesthetic of Ruby".

----
That's it for this week!  

Regards, Lori
