---
layout: post
---

### #OPED

If you follow any of my personal social media accounts (@wndxlori just about everywhere), you 
will probably already know that last summer we got a new puppy, a Miniature Schnauzer that we 
called Scooter. Scooter is an absolutely adorable little dog. But, like all schnauzers, that 
coat of his just keeps growing, so he needs to have a regular haircut at the dog groomers.

We take our dogs (yup, we also have a little rescue mutt called K.C.) to Bubbles Dog Grooming, 
a groomer who is quite close to where we live. When we moved to Lethbridge five years ago, we 
tried out a few different groomers. The other groomers arguably did a "better" job of the 
schnauzer cut, and were comparably priced, but in the end we stuck with Bubbles Dog Grooming. 
Not because they are cheap. Not because they do the best cut. But because my dogs actually 
like to go there. When we walk them up to the door of the shop, they are straining at the 
leash, and excited to go in. At a second visit to one the other groomers, our previous little 
schnauzer Cinder, who died a couple of years ago, freaked out and fought about going in to the 
groomer's house. That is not a good sign. Sure, her cuts were picture-perfect, but that's not
 worth scaring my dog.

This is something that I like to remind developers of, every once in a while. You don't have 
to be the cheapest. You don't have to make the prettiest pixel-perfect stuff. But if your apps 
treat people well...if people like or love your apps, then they will come back, over and over. — [wndxlori](http://twitter.com/wndxlori?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=16&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com)
 
### #FITS: Featured in the School

As we mentioned last week, the next session of 6 Pack Apps is just around the corner: April 
9th, to be precise. That sounds like a long way away, we know, but for anybody who has faced 
a drop dead date three weeks hence can confirm, that time will go by in a heartbeat. In the 
interim, here's the next of the most commonly asked questions from last fall's session. 

"I always wanted to build an app but haven’t all the good ideas already been taken?"

Hardly!  Sometimes the fact that an app already exists is a good thing, proving there's 
already an audience.  Not all apps serve all audiences equally. And sometimes all you need 
is a little coaching and you'll find have more ideas for apps than you have time to build 
them. [@wndxlori](http://twitter.com/wndxlori?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=16&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) will be illustrating a technique, which with a little effort on your part, 
can generate endless compelling app ideas.

Sound interesting but not quite yet ready to commit to the full course? Consider attending 
the free, one hour webinar coming up on April 2nd at 11.00 am MDT. It introduces the 6 Pack 
Apps curriculum and philosophy. Spots are limited so [reserve yours today](http://drip.la/c/eyJhY2NvdW50X2lkIjoiNjg0MjExMSIsInRyaWdnZXJfaWQiOiIzMTc0MTY3MzgiLCJkeW5hbWljX3VybCI6bnVsbCwidXJsIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly93bmR4c2Nob29sLmVhc3l3ZWJpbmFyLmxpdmUvcmVnaXN0cmF0aW9uIn0?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=16&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) and avoid a 
lifetime wondering about the path not taken.
 
### #MSH: Motioneers Slack Highlights

This isn't just a single highlight.  It's a whole channel on the Motioneers Slack team: #gamedev. 
Amir is at GDC 19 and will be posting updates on the undoubtedly amazing things he is going to 
be learning there.  For those of you not familiar with it, GDC is "is the world's largest 
professional game industry event [which] brings together 28,000 attendees to exchange ideas and 
shape the future of the industry"  Now you know.

Without Amir doing his usual yeoman service helping us all out it's a great time to point out 
that there are lots of new people on the Motioneers Slack with more arriving every day.  As 
you might expect this understandably leads to some fairly basic questions being (re-)asked 
and those running into the same common problems we faced back in the day.

To that we say, with apologies to JFK, "ask not what the Motioneers Slack can do for you, but 
what you can do for the Motioneers Slack." If you can help out and answer some of these easier 
questions, please do! It will allow Amir and the crew get on with the important work of 
DragonRuby from which we will all benefit.

### #GOTW: Gem of the Week

We have a gem of a gem this week. Nobody has ever said that before, right?  Seriously, like 
all really useful gems this week's #GOTW takes functionality that we all intend to eventually 
build into our apps but never quite get around to implementing because of its PITA-factor. 

So how about a RubyMotion-specific iOS gem to schedule messaging to your users at specified 
intervals.  Wouldn't that be nice?  Dream no more. [motion-takeoff](https://github.com/OTGApps/motion-takeoff?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=16&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) 
by [Mark Rickert](https://github.com/markrickert?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=16&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com). 
motion-takeoff is built to "display messages at certain launch counts and schedule local 
notifications."

This is a great way to keep in touch with your users and build the highly prized and yet 
eternally elusive app engagement.

### #COMM: Community

First, it will come as no great shock that Amir is working on another game and we think it 
has a really interesting UI which he demos with a GIF. Not all the commenters love it but 
it's worth a look to see what you think. Beehive meets cyber whack-a-mole. Yeah, something 
like that. You really need to see and judge for yourself but we think it looks really cool.

Next is our version of a PSA and comes to us via Parker Bond: 64 bit only Android is coming, 
and the upcoming RubyMotion version (6.0) will be 64 bit only for Android. So now is a great 
time to start thinking of updating your Android apps if they are out in the wild where they 
should be.

Finally, we have a question: some say the current schedule of monthly meetups - that is, 
second Wednesday of the month at 7 pm Pacific - is not convenient.  That said, no one has 
proposed a specific alternative. So how about this: please join the meetup channel and let 
us know what days / times are good for you and perhaps we can find a time which works a bit 
better for everybody?

### #AHOTW: App Highlight of the Week

Just when you thought every app was "Uber for [whatever]" along comes something from a domain 
we don't think gets anywhere near enough attention: education and kids' apps. To address that 
gap, how about Mega Field Trips by Elliott Draper. He describes it as "an educational 
accompaniment to field trips and visits to exciting and entertaining establishments."

Think about it: your kid asks you when the Pleistocene age was when you're visiting the 
dinosaur museum. "It's all there in the app, Jimmy!" is so much better than "uh, geez, 
I dunno..."

More to the point Mega Field Trips is an engine which can be re-themed and re-used by 
different venues to create experiences for kids on field trips. It resonated with us given 
that in our Rails for Real Developers course is based around a mythical 'Field Trips' 
application that students create using some open source data.

### #TWIL: This Week I Learned

First from Robin Kunde of Recoursive: a great tip to ensure universal links from your app 
open properly - in the app as expected - instead of in the embedded browser. Just a few lines 
of cut-n-paste code will cure what ails ya in this regard.

Next, we have this recurring nightmare where "time to wake up" appears in a modal dialog box 
that we can never close. It's quite chilling in a Stephen King novel kinda way.  In any event, 
in real life, Linzi Berry provides some thoughts on designing accessible escape for modals. 
Thank you, Linzi, we'll sleep more soundly knowing there's a better way.

Finally, an really interesting investigation into Ruby memory bloat from Hongli Lai.  Yes, 
that Hongli Lai of Phusian Passenger fame so the source is impeccable.  Well worth your time 
and attention to read this detailed breakdown.  
  
### That's a Wrap

That's it for another week. Do you want to be absolutely sure you never miss a future issue 
of #RMW? [Better subscribe](https://www.getdrip.com/forms/482172082/submissions/new?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=16&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com)! 
Also, follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/wndxschool?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=16&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com), 
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/wndxschool?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=16&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) or 
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/wndxschool?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=16&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) for 
other #RMW-worthy content between now and then. Have an interesting gem, app, or article 
to share?  Hit reply and let us know!

'Til next week...may all your cenes be Pleisto.