---
layout: post
---
Last week I had a horrible cold 🤒.  Being sick sucks. There are however lessons to be learned 
from being sick for over a week. My business coach has this great saying... "It's ok to have 
bad days, but entrepreneurs cannot afford to have bad weeks."  Being sick for over a week sure 
sounds like a bad week, but it doesn't have to be. I've found that no matter how sick I am, 
there's an hour or two (or three or four) a day where I feel, well not ok, but much better. 
So I make sure those hours are productive hours. Maybe I don't have time to do "all the things", 
but as long as I have a goal, and a plan, I can be pretty sure that I can work on some task 
every day that gets me one step closer to finishing a project, one step closer to achieving 
that goal.  

### Featured in the School

Thanks for filling out the [school's](https://wndx.school/?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8) "RubyMotion Developer Interests" poll over the last couple 
weeks (all 10% of you 🙄).  I'll be compiling the results and getting back to you next week to 
let you know what will be happening next. Meanwhile, I've been plotting out the next launch of 
6 Pack Apps.  Looks like I'll be kicking that off again at the beginning of April. Stay tuned, 
because all the best deals & limited special offers will appear here first!

### Slack Highlights

This week we have a discussion about [cut/copy/paste](https://motioneers.slack.com/archives/C055RDLS0/p1546564494061400?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8) in the iOS Simulator kicked off by Corey 
Condardo. It's sort of not obvious how to do this. You have to enable [keyboard input](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/IDEs/Conceptual/iOS_Simulator_Guide/InteractingwiththeiOSSimulator/InteractingwiththeiOSSimulator.html?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40012848-CH3-SW1) to start.  
And then there are some [extra steps](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/IDEs/Conceptual/iOS_Simulator_Guide/InteractingwithiOSandwatchOS/InteractingwithiOSandwatchOS.html?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40012848-CH8-SW11) to bring things in, or pull things out of the simulator. 
Sometimes, as Corey mentioned, it seems like you just needed to jiggle the handle a little 🤷‍♀️.

And if you haven't signed up for Slack yet, you can get access by going to [motioneers.herokuapp.com](http://motioneers.herokuapp.com/?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=6).

### Gem of the Week

I've been sitting on this one for a while, because the repo has obviously been abandoned. 
However, given the work I did in my own app on UIAppearance, I still think it has value, 
and should probably be brought back up to current standards.  [robertwijas/UISS](https://github.com/robertwijas/UISS?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8) is UIKit 
Style Sheets. It pulls all the UIAppearance customizations out into a JSON file! That can be 
reloaded!

I'm featuring RubyMotion gems here each week.  Sometimes because they are awesome, and sometimes 
because they need some love. Remember, if you have a gem you'd like featured, just reply to this 
email, or you can PM me in Slack! 

### Community Forum

Still quiet in the community forum.  So, we'd better followup on Amir's hunt for a new logo for 
[Dragon Ruby](http://dragonruby.org/?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=7). Dragon Ruby is the open source initiative for RubyMotion. Since RubyMotion is built 
on the LLVM, and the LLVM logo is a dragon... The logo contest progressed through 3 rounds, in 
which it seemed like Amir was just waiting for some of us to declare favourites so he could 
[gleefully disqualify](https://motioneers.slack.com/archives/C055RDLS0/p1547575645177800?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8) 
them! Anyway, without further ado... the new [Dragon Ruby logo](https://trello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com/5bfde05c6b43862de87de24a/5c47a1d148be42159444c5a4/75cb5cc7be06407310f328f6c9a1022a/attachment_103604245.png?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8).

And here's your reminder to introduce yourself on the [Hello World](http://community.rubymotion.com/t/hello-world-start-here/13?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=6) post on the community forum!

### App Highlight of the Week

This week, we have [Time Reporter](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fsmltechnologies.timereporter&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8), 
an Android app from Dave Trollope. It's a very low-overhead app for creating and sending in timesheets.

Psst!!! If you have an app (even if it's not in the App Store) send me the details, and I'll add 
it to the list to be featured!

### TWIL (This Week I Learned) Links 

Since [fastlane](https://fastlane.tools/?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8) 
is a popular iOS development tool (and is used by some of the RubyMotion gems), 
I thought you might find this article about [automating library releases](https://mar.codes/2018-11-14/Automate-open-source-libraries-releases-with-fastlane?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8) with fastlane interesting. 

And last but not least... [Global Game Jam](https://globalgamejam.org/?utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=8) is happening this weekend  (Jan 25-27). Maybe some of 
you game devs want to put together a RubyMotion team?

----
That's it for this week! Cough, sniffle. 

Regards, Lori
