---
layout: post
---
 
I know I'm in Canada 🇨🇦, so I'm supposed to be used to the cold, but the polar vortex 
finally moved in this weekend and man is it cold 🥶.  And no end in sight, either.  Hope 
all of you are staying warm! 
 
### Breaking NEWS 

I'm sacrificing the school feature this week for some breaking news 
in the RubyMotion world. Amir welcomes two new partners to RubyMotion - Aaron 
Lasseigne & Ryan Gordon. In Amir's words from the Motioneers Slack:


> Exciting news for RubyMotion: I’ve brought on two partners/
owners/stewards (each with equal stake in the product). Official 
announcement coming eventually :-)  
What will change: Each partner will be focused on improving 
different aspects of RubyMotion (as opposed to spreading myself 
thin). Feel free to ask any questions if you’d like (which I’ll 
address here and on the official entry).

> The short version is that bringing on partners that think like 
me would have been a wrong move. So I found people that fill 
in my weaknesses.
That took two years 😬
I mean I don’t have very many weaknesses 🙃 
Say hello to partners @Aaron Lasseigne and @icculus.

> On the spectrum of outward-facing-public-community-management 
to deep-in-the-weeds-technical-stuff: @Aaron Lasseigne is on 
the far left, I’m in the middle, @icculus is on the far right.

This is fantastic news for the community, and I'm excited for what this means 
for the future of RubyMotion. And of course for Amir to have some great new 
partners to help out and take some of the load off. 
 
### Slack Highlights

This past week, Reuben Ramon started a discussion about [using native libs](https://motioneers.slack.com/archives/C055RDLS0/p1548360712305600?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubyhmotionweekly.com) in RubyMotion.
There are definite limits to the numbers of RubyMotion specific gems (not all Ruby gems 
are compatible, since RubyMotion does not have the full stdlib of Ruby). However, one 
can use native libraries, written in other languages, in RubyMotion.  For iOS and macOS 
development, [motion-cocoapods](https://github.com/HipByte/motion-cocoapods?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) gives us access to all the Objective C libs (and some Swift, 
if they include an Objective C bridge).  And for Android, [motion-gradle](https://github.com/HipByte/motion-gradle?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) helps us build 
and link to native Android libs written in Java. 

And if you haven't signed up for Slack yet, you can get access by going to [motioneers.herokuapp.com](http://motioneers.herokuapp.com/?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10).

### Gem of the Week

The all-purpose Swiss Army knife of RubyMotion development - [BubbleWrap](https://github.com/rubymotion/BubbleWrap?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com), is our Gem of the 
Week. BubbleWrap is huge, and provides numerous wrappers to help make your RubyMotion code 
look less like Objective C and more like Ruby.  Because BubbleWrap is so huge, it's broken 
down into pieces that can be individually required in your Gemfile. But for all it's 
popularity, it's looking a bit neglected these days. I certainly wouldn't object if anyone 
wanted to step up and start cleaning up some of the backlog of issues and PR's... 

I'm featuring RubyMotion gems here each week.  Sometimes because they are awesome, and sometimes 
because they need some love. Remember, if you have a gem you'd like featured, just reply to this 
email, or you can PM me in Slack! 

### Community 

All quiet on the Community Forum front.  But... Amir did manage to add an extra bit of hype 
to his new partners announcement.  There will be another big announcement coming in April 
at Ruby Kaigi! And, since I know most of the RubyMotion gems use [TravisCI](http://travis-ci.org/?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) for their 
continuous integration tool, I thought you would like to know that [Travis CI has been 
acquired by Idera](https://trello.com/c/EIHsXK4k/91-rubymotion-bubblewrap-cocoa-wrappers-and-helpers-for-rubymotion-ruby-for-ios-and-os-x-making-cocoa-apis-more-ruby-like-one-api-a?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com). 

And here's your reminder to introduce yourself on the [Hello World](http://community.rubymotion.com/t/hello-world-start-here/13?utm_source=rm_weekly&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10) post on the community forum!

### App Highlight of the Week

Once again, we have an entirely too modest app creator, Brian Walton. His [Tagify](http://www.tagify.com/?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com)
is an [app](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/tagify-make-signage-easy/id597149184?mt=8&utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) 
that helps beverage distributors create great custom signage for their products. This is a 
great example of an app targeting a niche audience, and providing tonnes of value. Nicely 
done! 
 
Psst!!! If you have an app (even if it's not in the App Store) send me the details, and I'll add 
it to the list to be featured!

### TWIL (This Week I Learned) Links 

This week I learned... that you can watch the [ASCII version of Star Wars](https://github.com/martinraison/ascii-tv/blob/master/README.md?utm_campaign=newsletter&utm_content=10&utm_medium=web&utm_source=rubymotionweekly.com) 
from your terminal! Enjoy! 
 
----
That's it for this week!  

Regards, Lori
